---
layout: post
title: I work in tech, Should I always be upskilling?
subtitle: "Should I always be working on getting my next certificate, or learning about a new technology?"
gh-repo: shrivibhavan/shrivibhavan.github.io
gh-badge: [star, fork, follow]
tags: [test]
comments: true
---

The Greek philosopher Heraclitus once said “The only constant is change.” Nothing stands still. That’s what technology is all about: it’s about a constant advancement on what we have before. There are really only two options to avoid getting stuck without having done upskilling: do it on the clock or off the clock. Unfortunately, there’s really no other option! Few people prefer the latter, since it’s uncompensated, and it’s hard to spend the whole day working then having to study in your downtime. Ideally, you want to find a job where the company supports upskilling during work hours.

Canny people look at job postings and recognise the value proposition of a role is larger than the salary figure. In the United States, healthcare coverage is always a big thing in people’s minds, and around the world it can be pensions and holiday leave. However in tech, it’s also important to look for the ability to advance your knowledge of technology, instead of being stuck in a position that is static. That might take the form of dedicated learning time, but it’s also very important for the day-to-day role to include building your experience with relevant technology.

If you are not able to use new technology, or learn about technology outside your job, you are going to be paying that cost further down the line—normally when you’ve left that job and you are trying to get a new one. It is one of the sad paradoxes of technology that someone who has decades of experience in technology can actually be worse off in applying for a job than someone who has spent months of concerted effort to upskill in tech.